[Source: self-interview, voice recording transcribed]

Me: On. Okay. So currently as a UX researcher, I try to incorporate AI in all of my workflows. So when I go into a KIP call with the product team or even sometimes it involves designers. I try to, I always record or at least transcribe those calls. And then put it into an AI and ask it to come up with a research plan based on the conversations that we had in the kickoff call. And of course, I always provide. The template, which would have. A research goal, the questions that we want to answer. What we are trying to get out of this research. What are the benefits of doing this research in terms of the product or for the business? And then also. Try to come up with a good timeline of things. Which method that we're going to use how many participants, what are the segmentations? You know, what is our target number of participants, things like that. And then of course, you know, I would include interview guide or survey depending on which method that we are using. Also, if it's my very first time working on a certain product, I would do a competitive analysis and also deep research using AI, trying to understand more about the product or the domain ecosystem, the landscape of the industry. Who is our direct competitive versus who is indirect competitive, what features all those other. Competitors have that we don't have what is our companies or our products position within the domain, things like that. So, you know, I try to use deep research to really understand that whole landscape. Of the product that I'm supporting or the company that I'm working for. What else? And of course, you know, I either transcribe all the interview sessions as well. So when it comes to data analysis, I would, you know, add in the transcripts into AI and have it come up with certain themes. Or, you know, and of course, you know, I would revise those. And depending on each themes, you know, I kind of, you know, like use AI, you know, brainstorm together, work together in terms of analysis. And also I, you know, try to look for different perspectives. Depending on what AI comes up with. And of course even the final readout or a report, I would get help from AI, you know, because it's got all the context already. So yeah, you know, I use AI in many different steps as a UX researcher. Anything that have changed or added recently. Not, not that I can think of. I've always been using AI since chat GPT first came out. And, you know, of course, you know, it really slowly grew. But these days, the fact that I am using AI for pretty much everything, even, you know, to make sure that my recruitment email checks out, you know, the follow-up emails are good. You know, even, even to those like communication levels, you know, I take advantage of AI. And when. Quite, quite frankly, all the deliverables that I pass down to PM or designers. Like they would honestly, exactly the same as, you know, if I didn't. Use AI. So any of the context, I don't necessarily think that it gets all, well, I guess it does get lost because they were not in those interviews. So anything that I have seen or heard gets very minimized in those final reports. So yes, they are missing a lot of those contacts, but at the same time. That is also my job, you know, to go out there, talk to the users directly and learn about their sentiments towards our products. You know, what is wrong with it? What is good? What else can we improve? What else can we make better? What else do they need? And you know, what do we actually need to get rid of as well? And it is my job to summarize all of that. And, you know, prioritize what is really what is most important, what is most critical versus what is not. I don't think what they're losing in terms of context is really that important. You know what? I actually, you know, I do think a lot of people use AI, especially to come up with, like, a research request or emails. Agenda items. But since those all come from come either after the meeting or prior to the meeting, that there is always that human connection conversation going on. So I haven't really. Had an experience where a context was missing from. AI generated deliverable from a different teammate. And how do I. Honestly, all of the reasoning. On the decision making. I don't necessarily documented. It's really all in my head. If it's a presentation that I'm doing to the company, then I would write some of that in the notes section of the deck. But almost. I would say like nine more than 90 of the time. It's just in my head because I know what the reasoning was since I am the one who made those calls. And I do not share that necessarily unless I am, you know, doing a presentation or unless I am very specifically asked about what was the reasoning behind XYZ. And as far as the difference between. A team that is using AI as a tool versus AI native team, I think it really comes down to are you treating AI as one of your team member? Are you treating AI as a per as kind of like a team member that you're having conversation with? Versus are you telling AI to do something. Rather than, you know, like having combo? I think that's the difference. Probably the biggest difference. Where does AI. Add value to ux research process? I think generating a lot of those documents is probably the biggest value add because coming out with a research plan. From a meeting that I have just had. But the fact that I have to recall that from my memory and rewrite every single thing that we have just discussed, that's, that's a really, that's a real pain in the ass. So, yeah, generating those documents, you know, writing up a slide deck, you know, even when it comes to analysis, quite frankly, I think most of. Like, any senior level researchers would probably agree is by the time. We, like, you know, we remember from our interviews. And the more we are talking to people, we very quickly already have. A pattern forming in our head that I don't necessarily need to go back one by one. You know, like highlighting and tagging, because honestly, I already have a very decent idea. So the fact that AI is doing a lot of heavy lifting of finding those quotes, whereas, and, you know, like, I am actually just confirming the work that AI has done. And like I say, you know, because I already have an idea of what the pattern is going to look like, what the themes are going to be, all I really have to do is, you know, you know, just check them, you know, is it correct? You know, is what AI giving me, you know, what I was. Assuming from conducting those interviews. So, you know, it, I think a lot of aspects within ux research, any tedious stuff that we had to do, AI has been a great help with a lot of that. So really, like my, my job now is no longer typing. It really is about thinking and analyzing. Where it, it doesn't necessarily become a bottleneck or, or hurdle, but I do know that, you know, it's not, I think a lot of, well, I guess it is the, the downside of AI for UX research is that a lot of people who are not researchers now think that they can do UX research or research in general using AI. But unfortunately, you know, research comes from experience, comes from training. You know, you under, you have to understand how research should be conducted. You know, what, what type of questions you should be asking? You know, especially if you are trying to. You know, like, you can't, you can just ask questions. You know, you need to be able to read between the lines. You also need to be able to ask, write, follow up questions. And that doesn't just come from having AI come up with something. You know, you have to be able to know what you are going to follow up on. Like, you know, for example, you know, if AI is giving you a question, that is obviously a leading question. How are you going to know if you don't know that you're not supposed to ask those questions in ux research interviews? You're not going to know that. That means a lot, you know, I would bet you that any research that is just generated by AI. It will probably, the results will probably be very, very biased and very skewed. So. The, the ability that use ux research should have, researchers should have related to AI. I think it's not necessarily. Well, in terms of understanding how AI works, for sure, you know, the fact that AI can lie, you know, it can hallucinate, it can give you in, you know, Imperfect answers or analysis that you are the person who is going to have to always finalize everything. And the fact that everything should be coming, still be coming from your brain. You know, you should be able to recognize, oh, these research goals that AI just, you know, spit out from using the transcripts that you provided. And yet, you know, it may still give you research goals that are not necessarily the research goal that you or your stakeholders were thinking about. So, you know, you still have to read very carefully and you're going to need to understand how AI itself works. But other than that, I think pretty much, you know, just like everybody else had said, I think ux researchers. Should know how to do ux research without AI before leaning into AI. Is how I see it. You know, be able to write up survey questions, be right, be able to write interview questions, be able to write, write or ask write follow-up questions. Know what type of question that you should not be asking, things like that. And as far as things that I would like PM's designers and Engineers to understand from research perspective is that research is always going to take time. And it is not the fact that it takes time for us to come up with a research plan. It's not about us, you know, analyzing data. It is always, always going to be how. You know, how much time it takes to. To talk to the users, you know, like scheduling is always a hurdle. And, you know, Asking people to meet with you and, you know, talk to you for like 30 minutes. Like, you know, that's, that's a hurdle. There's so much you can do in terms of recruitment and even for, like, you know, surveys or usability, things like that. It's, it's always, always getting people to participate, so, which is part of ux research. But really out of our hand. And I think that's just, like, the biggest thing that everybody clients that I've, you know, work with. Like, that's something that they always miss. They don't understand. You know, it's always like, we gotta, we gotta deliver fast. We gotta deliver fast. Like, why can't you just, you know, like, analyze it, like, on the go? Well, that's not how you should be analyzing your data. So. Okay. And within the current AI workflow, what is the biggest. Pain point that I would like to solve? I think it's. Really about knowing what everybody else is doing and understanding. How they are progressing and how their work is tied to my work. And how research. Unfortunately, research is always left out. So, you know, I want them to be able to. Or at least I want to be able to. Continue to follow up. And be involved. Every step of the way of the product development, not just. You do research once for the sake of doing research. And then you're done. You know, I don't think it should happen. Like that. So. But, like, that's, that's actually not related to AI. So as far as AI workflow goes. I'm not sure. I don't. I can't really think of. Because I think, like, all of my AI workflow is really related to how I am using AI. How I am incorporating AI to my work. And I don't think AI has been. I think AI could help in terms of. Helping me understand. Any other context that I may be missing to do my job better, to understand. You know, people's, you know, how people came to whatever conclusion they came to be. But. But, yeah, I can't really think of anything.
